1. Title .. we have to be careful here. Are we presenting a paper for JCP which gives a method for solving OT
     on the sphere with application to mesh generation, or a paper on mesh generation which uses OT
     methods?  It's really a question of which audience we want to read the paper.  For generating meshes
     we don't have to solve OT very accurately (OT is really a means to an end in this context, not the end itself) but we do need to
     worry about mesh tangling, mesh skewness etc. Personally I would prefer 'Mesh generation using OT methods on
     the sphere' but of course this is up to all of us to decide.

2. We might also consider writing a separate paper targeted firmly at the OT community in which we look
     very carefully at solving OT accurately on the sphere as an end in itself. This is of course directly
     relevant to solutions of the Euler eqns etc.

3. I find the treatment in section 2.2 (especially following formula (8) ) quite abrupt and we may wish to soften it
    up for JCP readers who are unfamiliar with OT.  My own perspective has always been to define a mesh
   \tau_C in the computational domain and then consider the action of a continuous measure on this to give the
   target mesh \tau_P in the physical domain.  This avoids dirac measures and I find it a transparent way of
   doing things.  If you want to use dirac measures then I think we need to motivate them more in this context so
   that the JCP reader can see why this method of presentation has advantages.

   Having said that .. I very much like your c-convexity arguments

4. I'm very happy with sections 3 and 4

5.  Your definition of skewness in Section 5 does indeed differ from mine. As far as I can tell it exploits and requires the nonlinear
    properties of the map. In contrast the Q measure is related to the properties of the Jacobian of the mesh and is thus 
    a measure of the linear properties of the map. The Q measure naturally comes into local error estimates and can also be
    estimated from the a-priori estimates of the solution of the MA eqn

Your wording is currently:

"This definition of skewness is
different quantitatively and qualitatively from that of Budd et al. [9]. The skewness metric, Q, from
Budd et al. [9] gives information about isotropy and orthogonality, not face skewness."

I would prefer 

"This definition of skewness is a feature of the nonlinearities of the map generating the mesh
different quantitatively and qualitatively from the measure Q described by  Budd et al. [9] which can be calculated directly
 the Jacobian of the map, and hence from the second derivatives of the solution of the Monge Ampere eqn. The skewness metric, Q, from
Budd et al. [9] gives information about isotropy and orthogonality and local interpolation error, not face skewness."

6.  Im happy with section 6.  Note that for the Monitor in 6.3 (give it a number ??) we can estimate Q exactly, but not your measure of skewness.

7. In Figure 6 can we label the axes so that it is clear it is a lat-long projection?

8. In section 6 you again refer to 'very large non-orthogonality' .. as always this is a matter of perspective. Maybe use the word 'large orthogonality'

I hope that you have a good time with Robert. I will be talking to his group in Toronto on 16th June and will want to present our stuff.

