Have had a look. The result in Fig. 24 is very impressive. Howver, I think that the paper as a whole gives a rather negative impression because of issues with the test problems. The method is much better for simultaneous local refinement in many regions, as in Phil's results and in Fig. 24. I think you use up too much space and pictures on aspects which are not satisfactory-they have to be shown but not at such length.

The high resolution patch is not a good case for the method because a simple insertion of a higher resolution block with changes in mesh topology would probably work better as the uniformity of the mesh is retained away from the higher resolution patch. You can argue that uniform meshes are no longer possible on GungHo grids, so this issue will no longer be so significant.

More specifically, the results in sections 5.1-5.3 are not at all nice and I can see some referees not bothering to read further. The point of these sections is to introduce your new preconditioning. The results of MA for these test problems are already published in Budd et al. and the issues stated there. The only point you need to make in this paper is that the geometric Hessian should be used rather than the finite difference which gives the wrong answer. I think one set of plots in addition to Fig. 4 is enough to make this point. You could then only give the geometric results when illustrating the performance on the sphere which will save a lot of space. 

The spherical results shown in Fig. 9 are better, and though the Lloyd's meshes look nicer, there are good practical; reasons why MA could be preferable. 

I suggest the title is altered to 'Numerical solution of the optimal transport problem for mesh generation on the sphere'. My reasons are as follows. 

The equidistribution principle leads directly to the optimal transport constraint that the transport map has to push forward a uniform measure to a prescribed non-uniform measure. The map is then found by minimising a cost function, Euclidean distance squared or Riemannian distance squared according to the geometry. This minimises the mesh distortion. In both cases a unique solution exists (McCann's paper and Villani's 2008 book need to be cited) and can be expressed in terms of a Monge-Ampere equation. They both satisfy monotonicity requirements which prevent mesh tangling. The optimal transport procedure also acts as a proof of existence of solutions for the MA equation-which is not obvious otherwise.

Your form of MA for the sphere in section 3.2 is wrong. The first displayed equation should just state x=exp_\xi grad\phi. I suggest you don't attempt to write down the implied MA equation explicitly, this requires serious geometry. The fact that the optimal transport problem has been solved assures that the ratio of mesh areas is correct. This is a good reason for only showing results from the geometric Hessian version of the scheme. Your argument in section 3.3.2 is fine.


