1. The description of MA on the sphere needs more detail. IN particular
we need to flesh out the details of the exponential map and the
calculation of the volumes on the sphere surface. Presumably Phil's
new work will be useful here.

Also the geometric method is really novel and needs more explanation. I think this
is a powerful new idea. Well done

The description of MA in Euclidean space can be largely referred to
my earlier papers.

2. I like the fixed point iteration. May need to think a bit more carefully
about how it is converging .. but your convergence  figures look good.

3. The calculation of the ring type solution in the plane and the resulting
mesh skewness issues in particular was pretty well covered in my recent
paper with Emily .. so not really sure you need to say much there.

4. I agree with Mike that the geometric method seems to out perform the
discrete method on the sphere so it is probably worth focusing
down on this one.

5. The paper gives a negative impression about the use of the method to
generate meshes based on various measures of mesh quality.

I have various points to make here

(i) talk about the positives. In particular the speed of the algorithm
and its ease of implementation. Give clear comparisons with Lloyd's
algorithm in these cases

(ii) mesh quality measures can be misleading. If you want to approximate
a highly anisotropic function then an isotropic mesh is the way to
go. See the book by Huang and Russell about this. Monge Ampere generated meshes
can be close to optimal for approximating such functions. This is the subject
of ongoing research .. but the paper with Emily addresses this to a certain
extent.

I agree that for other problems lack of orthogonality becomes an issue
and we need to be aware of this. However, the real issue is that ]
what matters is not the mesh itself, but the solution that we compute
on that mesh. It is the accuracy of this which is the true measure
of the mesh quality. That is clearly something that we will be looking
into carefully in our grant of course.




(iii) Your figure 24 is simply amazing!!! Put in more detail about this
and talk about the speed of finding the mesh and its quality in this
case.

